Sometimes I can’t sleep at night.  I’m tired, but my brain won’t slow down enough to let me relax.  I stare at the ceiling without really seeing.  Once a minute, the electric clock on my dresser clicks as the minute hand jumps 6 degrees farther in its course around the dial.  Purposely, I ignore it.  I don’t want to know how long I have to wait before tomorrow comes. 
I’d watch TV, but this late there’s nothing on but the weather and an old horror movie.  Ten minutes into the show and I know I’ve seen it before.  Well, not this particular one, but a rose by any other name would still bleed red on the fangs of the vampire.  Stern stuff like that at the beginning, if you can stomach it, but the story always ends at sunrise.
The other three channels that come in are infomercials.  For six low payments of $19.99, you can purchase your very own Pelvic Thruster, or whatever the creative minds in marketing call it this year, and have good health delivered to your door.  For thirty minutes, your friendly guide Lisa will demonstrate how fun it is to work your way towards a lean and fit body.  Tonight it’s the same program on each station.  You can hear the sales pitch, then flip channels and hear it again, 18 seconds later.
Her name really is Lisa.  My buddy Jim, who grew up in Wisconsin, says she went to the same high school as him, but a couple years later.  He insisted on proving it by digging out an old yearbook with her picture.  She looked different then, but it was the same girl.  She was one of those chicks who talked about moving to L.A. and becoming an actress.  Somewhere between high school graduation and the advertising studio set she blossomed into the Hefner ideal of womanhood.  It must have happened on that long bus ride to California.  She gets a double helping of her fifteen minutes of fame every night, sometime between two and four-thirty a.m.  Five years from now, her big shot will be a supporting actress role in a direct-to-video psychological thriller.  If she’s lucky, her character won’t be in the tub when she’s stabbed to death.
My house could be in one of those movies.  It’s an old two story converted into two apartments.  My landlord lives in the smaller half, and leaves me to ramble about the rest.  I have the front half of the ground floor, and the two bedrooms and bathroom on the second.  We leave the attic for the mice.  I lay awake at night listening to them play tag in the rafters.  There’s a door under the stairs that leads down to the basement, but since we moved the water heater into a closet on the main level, I have it blocked off with a bookshelf.  Some night I’m going to come down to see the bookshelf pushed away and "Get out of the house" painted on the living room wall.
I’ve lived in this house for eight years now.  I returned from the East Coast after the insurance firm I worked for imploded.  The president liquidated a substantial portion of the company’s accounts and relocated to an unnamed foreign country.  I left all but one of my suits in the city and moved back home.  Now I hold the prestigious title of Assistant Manager at the local hardware store.  It’s the same job I turned down a lifetime ago to go to college and learn financial planning.  I cut glass and copy keys while you wait.  Sharpening chain saws and mending window screens are overnight jobs.  I rotate the paint cans too.
Sometimes when I can’t sleep I paint.  I have a shoebox full of brushes and half-squeezed tubes of acrylics.  Several blank canvasses hang on my living room wall, awaiting the application of abstract design.  I’ll strip down to my shorts, turn on all the lights, and play Uriah Heep on the stereo to get myself motivated.  My landlord must sleep like a log, because he never complains.  Switch colors and wipe the brush on an exposed arm, leg, or bare portion of midsection.  Every seventeen to twenty-four minutes I have to wash my hands to flip the LP over or choose a new selection from the stack bequeathed to me when the previous tenant moved out.  Tonight might be a good night for Cream, but I don’t feel like painting.
I still use the same turntable I had in high school.  We’d get together in my parent’s basement on Friday night and hang out.  I replaced the 100 watt bulbs in the ceiling fixtures with a string of blue Christmas lights.  My friends, Brian, Phil, and Victor, brought over albums of what could now only be called classic rock.  Occasionally a bottle of vodka, liberated by Brian from his father’s secret stash, would be smuggled in and produced with a flourish from his coat pocket.  On rarer occasions the girls graced us with their presence, attended by well abused copies of Disco Inferno and the Saturday Night Fever soundtrack.  They took over the stereo and swirled to the music.  We would sit on the floor and watch.  Somewhere in another wood-paneled basement, Jim was eyeing Lisa’s older sister as she danced to the same songs.
My girlfriend Marcy came over a couple of times.  We dated for a while my junior year until she discovered that Star Trek wasn’t cool.  It was the deal breaker of our relationship.  Afterward, her little sister Katy would still say hi, but Marcy made a point of not seeing me if I was anywhere near.
Later, after the girls left, and the decent folk in our little town were long asleep, we finished the bottle and ventured out to commit teenage misdemeanors.  Usually it was minor crimes like stealing construction signs or sneaking into the football stadium to play a game of catch without the mortal fear of obliteration.  Just the sight of another boy pulling in a pass was enough to drive certain members of the varsity team into a tackling frenzy, and nothing short of an official whistle could stop those wild bulls in their mad rush.  After hours was the only time we felt safe even picking up a ball.
One night before Halloween we collected pumpkins from unguarded porches and threw them off the highway overpass to see them smash on the pavement below.  A good one would splatter across all three lanes.  We talked about going back to see what a full garbage bag would do, but never got around to it.  When we got home, I laid down on my bed and slept in my clothes.
I think I’ll take a walk. Maybe what I need is a stroll in the night air to empty my head and tire my body enough to hit the hay.  There’s a convenience store a quarter mile from my house.  It’s not a 7-11, but it stays open all night and sells imitation slurpees, right down to the straw with a little spoon on the end.  They’re cheaper, but the flavors never change.  I pull on some pants and a hooded sweatshirt.  A handful of nickels, dimes, and quarters from my spare change jar go into the pouch pocket.  Now I look like a kangaroo, carrying a little joey jingling for attention.  My shoes are by the front door, where I kicked them off when I arrived home this evening.   
My path takes me around the corner of a small cemetery, a remnant from earlier days before the suburbs swallowed the small community in which I live.  The last plots of land were occupied years before I was born.  No fence surrounds the graveyard, but I’m not interested in taking a shortcut.  I can hear the story the teenagers would tell.
"Look, it’s the graveyard!"
"Yeah, cool."
"I dare you to walk through it..."
"No way!"
"What, are you afraid of some dead bodies?  Whooo!"
"Did you hear about that guy who disappeared in there?  He tried to cut through in the middle of the night.  The next day they found his footprints going in, but none coming out."
"Chicken."
"Whatever."
I take the long way around, and make sure my feet stay on the sidewalk.  One strawberry icy-freeze later, and I pass by on my way home.  Maybe someday I’ll stop by to look at the gravestones.  During the day.
Safely home again, I’m still awake.  The air outside was colder than I expected, sharpening me up.  I froze my insides with crushed ice, and wonder if risking a burnt tongue on hot chocolate might have been a better choice.  I take off my shoes and return them to wait by the door.  As I pull off the sweatshirt, the leftover change falls out and spills on the carpet.  I think I find most of the coins and put the change jar back in the kitchen.
I’m sitting on the living room floor, in the dark, in front of the stereo.  I don’t turn it on.
I’m thinking about Marcy.
I thought I ran into her once at the supermarket.  She was standing in the bread aisle, silently debating the wonders of a national brand pre-sliced loaf, versus the in-house product, which requires the employment of a serrated knife to render surfaces suitable for sandwich making.  I watched from the end of the row as she hefted each in her hands, mentally weighing the consequences of this important dietary choice.  At length she put the fresher, but more expensive, local product back, and placed the winning loaf in her cart.  Too bad, but then maybe she wasn’t interested in custom thickness slices.  She paused a moment, leaving her hand on the bread.  Maybe the rules of bakery purchases are similar to chess, where your move isn’t over until you let go of the piece.  She examined the prices again, then quickly put the loaf back on the shelf.  Good choice.  She bent to retrieve the bread she wanted, and rising, looked up and saw me standing several feet away.
"Hi Bill, shopping today?" she said, a tentative smile crossing her lips.
"Um yeah."
It came out as a croak, and I realized I had not spoken to anyone at all that day.  I coughed and tried again.
"Hi Marcy, how are you doing?"
The smile disappeared.
"I’m Kathryn," she said.  "Do you remember me?  Marcy’s sister."
A brief image of the chubby eighth-grader surfaced in my mind.  I realized how I could have made the mistake, but still felt foolish.
I tried to smile and said, "So you’re not Katy anymore?"
"No, That was a long time ago."
The vanished smile was beginning to turn into a frown.
"Well, you sure have grown up," I said, and hearing the words come out of my mouth, regretted the cliché.  To my surprise, the smile reappeared.  One of amusement.  I had turned into old Uncle William at the family reunion, pinching cheeks and patting the heads of embarrassed relatives. 
"Thank you," she laughed, "I think."
I’d stepped in it, up to my knee, and she was laughing at me.
"I was sick after college and lost a lot of weight," she said.  She was serious now.  "Cancer."
"Oh."
"I’m okay now," Kathryn said.  "It’s all gone.
I was remembering Marcy’s little sister better now.  A girl with curly brown hair.  I wondered if she was wearing a wig.  I didn’t say that out loud.  At least I’m pretty sure I didn’t.  I hope I didn’t.
She went on, "I lost most of my hair in chemotherapy, too.  When it came back in, it was as straight as you see it.  I can’t do anything with it now.  I can see how you would mistake me for Marcy."
"So how is your sister?" I asked.
Kathryn had been leaning on her shopping cart, balancing her weight at the point between lifting the front wheels off the ground, and pushing it out from under her.  It rocked back and forth slightly as she adjusted her stance.  Now, she stood up straight and folded her arms.
"You don’t know, then do you?"
I shrugged.  Both feet in now, and sinking.
"Bill, Marcy’s dead."  Kathryn looked me in the eyes.  "She was driving with her husband on I-75 and some kids threw a cinderblock off an overpass.  It went through the windshield and killed her.  They never found the kids that did it.  She’s been gone nearly three years now."
I had the impression that Kathryn was reciting a short memorized speech she had been required to deliver more times than she cared to.
"I’m sorry."  
"I can’t believe no one told you about it."
I shrugged again, "I’ve been out of touch for a while."
She put her hand on my arm and said, "It’s okay.  We still miss her, but life goes on."
More of the speech.
Kathryn looked away, then seemed to gather herself.  She smiled again and asked, "so how are you doing?"
"Oh, okay", I said, "same old stuff."
"Yeah, me too."
She must have realized that she still had a hold of my arm and let go.
"Well, I have more shopping to do," she said.  She arranged the bread in her cart.
"Me too."
Kathryn said, "It was nice talking to you."  She turned her cart and looked back at me.
"Maybe I’ll see you around," she said.
"Yeah, see you."
That was at least four months ago.  I looked her phone number up when I got home.  I never got around to calling her, but I think the book is where I left it last on the seat of a folding chair.  There’s a light layer of dust on the open pages of the phone book.  In the light from the kitchen, it’s just enough to obscure the names.  If I was to call her, all I’d have to do is blow off the dust and dial the number.
I still have a black rotary dial phone.  I rescued it from the trash bin when the hardware store got a new push button model with speed dialing.  There’s a modern phone up in my bedroom, but I like to keep the old ugly one out where people can see it.  No one has ever asked to use it.
When we were young it was easy to dial the first six digits of a girl’s number.  You could still hang up, and no one would be the wiser.  After the seventh spun round, a long thin path of copper connected you to a similar piece of Bell Corporation property in her house.  Once it started ringing, even if you chickened out, she’d know someone had called.  When you were talking, if you said something particularly stupid you could yank hard on the cord and pull the words back along the wire before she heard.  If only.  I rehearse the conversation in my mind.
Seven digits.
The phone lifts, and a sleepy voice asks, "Hello?"
"Kathryn?"
"Uh-huh," she says, "Who is this?"
"It’s Bill Spaulding."
Seconds pass.
"Oh."
"How are you?"
She answers, "I’m fine."
"That’s good."
"Bill, do you know what time it is?"
The digital clock on my microwave is blank.  The power goes out in my neighborhood often enough, I’ve given up resetting it each time.
"I think it’s around three-thirty," I say.
"Yeah, well, I’m going back to sleep."
"Okay," I try to sound cheerful, "bye."
She’s already hung up.  
If I was lucky, she wouldn’t remember being woken up in the night.  
I fold the corner of the page in the phone book where her number is and close it.  The book won’t stay shut, and slowly flops open again on the chair.  I blow the dust out of the crease, and shut it again.  I set the phone on top, to press it closed, and go upstairs.  I’ll lie on my bed and wait, but I’m not going to sleep.
